# ML-Answer-Prediction-Algorithm

### Online education services, such as Khan Academy and Coursera, provide a broader audience with access to high-quality education. On these platforms, students can learn new materials by watching a lecture, reading course material, and talking to instructors in a forum. However, one disadvantage of the online platform is that it is challenging to measure students' understanding of the course material. To deal with this issue, many online education platforms include an assessment component to ensure that students understand the core topics. The assessment component is often composed of diagnostic questions, each a multiple choice question with one correct answer. The diagnostic question is designed so that each of the incorrect answers highlights a common misconception. When students incorrectly answer the diagnostic question, it reveals the nature of their misconception and, by understanding these misconceptions, the platform can offer additional guidance to help resolve them.

### In this project, I built machine learning algorithms to predict whether a student can correctly answer a specific diagnostic question based on the student's previous answers to other questions and other students' responses. Predicting the correctness of students' answers to as yet unseen diagnostic questions helps estimate the student's ability level in a personalized education platform. Moreover, these predictions form the groundwork for many advanced customized tasks. For instance, using the predicted correctness, the online platform can automatically recommend a set of diagnostic questions of appropriate difficulty that fit the student's background and learning status.
